[ADD] Upgrade documentation: Migration scripts and Util package (#7330)
odoo/documentation: content/developer/howtos/upgrade/upgrade_util.rst

- :mod:`odoo.upgrade.util`: the helper themself.
- :mod:`odoo.upgrade.testing`: base TestCase classes.

To use it in upgrade scripts, simply import it:

.. code-block:: python

   from odoo.upgrade import util

   def migrate(cr, version):
      # Rest of the script

Now, the helper functions are available to be called through ``util``.

Util functions
==============

The util package provides many useful functions to ease the upgrade process. Here, we describe some
of the most useful ones. Refer to the `util folder
<https://github.com/odoo/upgrade-util/tree/master/src/util>`_ for the comprehensive declaration of
helper functions.

.. note::

   All util functions receive :attr:`cr` as a parameter. This refers to the database cursor. Use the
   one received as a parameter in the :doc:`upgrade_scripts`.

Fields
------

.. `[source] <https://github.com/odoo/upgrade-util/blob/master/src/util/fields.py#L91>`_
.. method:: remove_field(cr, model, fieldname[, cascade=False][, drop_column=True][, skip_inherit=()])

   Remove a field and its references from the database

   :param str model: model name of the field to remove
   :param str fieldname: name of the field to remove

>    :param bool cascade: if ``True``, removes the field's column and inheritance in ``CASCADE``
>       (default: ``False``)

Reviewer: You can eventually use "Whether" to document booleans to make shorter sentences.
```suggestion
   :param bool cascade: Whether the field's column and inheritance are removed in ``CASCADE``
      (default: ``False``)
```
Same for other params and methods.

>    :param bool cascade: if ``True``, removes the field's column and inheritance in ``CASCADE``
>       (default: ``False``)

Reviewer: The default is in the signature.
```suggestion
   :param bool cascade: if ``True``, removes the field's column and inheritance in ``CASCADE``
```
Same for other params and methods.

   Uninstall and remove a module and its references from the database

   :param str module: name of the module to remove

.. `[source] <https://github.com/odoo/upgrade-util/blob/master/src/util/modules.py#L263>`_
.. method:: rename_module(cr, old, new)

   Rename a module and its references from ``old`` to ``new``

   :param str old: current name of the module to rename
   :param str new: new name of the module to rename

.. `[source] <https://github.com/odoo/upgrade-util/blob/master/src/util/modules.py#L323>`_
.. method:: merge_module(cr, old, into, update_dependers=True)

   Move all references of module ``old`` into module ``into``

   :param str old: name of the source module of the merge
   :param str into: ame of the destination module of the merge
   :param bool update_dependers: if ``True``, updates the dependencies of modules that depends on
      ``old`` (default: ``True``)

ORM
---

.. `[source] <https://github.com/odoo/upgrade-util/blob/master/src/util/orm.py#L43>`_
.. method:: env(cr)

   Create a new environment from the cursor

   .. warning::
      This function does NOT empty the cache maintained on the cursor for superuser with an empty

>       environment. A call to invalidate_cache will most probably be necessary every time you

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      environment. A call to `invalidate_cache` will most probably be necessary every time you
```

      directly modify something in database.

   :return: The new environment
   :rtype: :class:`~odoo.api.Environment`

.. `[source] <https://github.com/odoo/upgrade-util/blob/master/src/util/orm.py#L218>`_
.. method:: recompute_fields(cr, model, fields[, ids=None][, logger=_logger][, chunk_size=256][, strategy="auto"])

   Recompute field values

   :param str model:  model name of the field(s) to recompute
   :param list(str) fields: list of field names to recompute
   :param list(int) ids: list of record IDs to recompute
   :param logger: Logger used to print the progress of the function

>    :type: logger: :class:`logging.Logger`

Reviewer: Sphinx doesn't seem to like alternating docstring styles. `Type` is rendered after all params.

   :param int chunk_size: size of the chunk used to split the records for better processing
      (default: ``256``)
   :param str strategy: strategy used to process the recomputation (default: ``auto``):

      - ``flush``: Flush the recomputation when it's finished
      - ``commit``: Commit the recomputation when it's finished
      - ``auto``: The function chooses the best alternative for the recomputation based on the

>         number of records to recompute and the fields traceability.

Reviewer: The bulleted list is broken.

Reviewer: It seems like it's not possible to have bulleted lists within params. You can lists the values and their meaning in the body of the docstring instead.

Records
-------

.. `[source] <https://github.com/odoo/upgrade-util/blob/master/src/util/records.py#L612>`_
.. method:: ref(cr, xmlid)

   Return the id corresponding to the given :term:`xml_id <external identifier>`

   :param str xml_id: Record xml_id, under the format ``<module.id>``

>    :return: Found record id or None
>    :rtype: int

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   :return: Found record id, if any
   :rtype: int or `None`
```

.. `[source] <https://github.com/odoo/upgrade-util/blob/master/src/util/records.py#L281>`_
.. method:: remove_record(cr, name)

   Remove a record and its references corresponding to the given :term:`xml_id <external identifier>`

   :param str name: record xml_id, under the format ``<module.id>``

.. `[source] <https://github.com/odoo/upgrade-util/blob/master/src/util/records.py#L548>`_
.. method:: rename_xmlid(cr, old, new[, noupdate=None][, on_collision="fail"])

   Rename the :term:`external Identifier` of a record

   :param str old: current xml_id of the record, under the format ``<module.id>``
   :param str new: new xml_id of the record, under the format ``<module.id>``
   :param bool noupdate: value to set on the ir_model_data record ``noupdate`` field (default:
      ``None``)
   :param str on_collision: action to take if the new xml_id already exists (default: ``fail``)

      - ``fail``: raise ``MigrationError`` and prevent renaming

>       - ``merge``: renames the external Identifier and removes the old one

Reviewer: Broken bulleted list.

   :param str xmlid: record xml_id, under the format ``<module.id>``
   :param str model: model name of the record
   :param dict values: Dictionary ``{"fieldname_1": "value_1", ...}`` mapping fields and values to
      search for the record to update. For example:

      .. code-block:: python

         values = {"id": 123}
         values = {"name": "INV/2024/0001", company_id: 1}

   :return: the xmlid of the record.
   :rtype: str

.. _upgrade/util/update_record_from_xml:

.. `[source] <https://github.com/odoo/upgrade-util/blob/master/src/util/records.py#L720>`_
.. method:: update_record_from_xml(cr, xmlid[, reset_write_metadata=True][, force_create=False][, from_module=None][, reset_translations=()])

   Update a record based on its definition on the :doc:`../../reference/backend/data`. Useful to
   update ``noupdate`` records, in order to reset them for the upgraded version.

   :param str xmlid: record xml_id, under the format ``<module.id>``
   :param bool reset_write_metadata: if ``True``, the metadata before the record update is kept
      (default: ``True``)
   :param bool force_create: if ``True``, creates the record if it does not exist. (default:

>       ``False``)

Reviewer 2: Default value will change: https://github.com/odoo/upgrade-util/pull/36/commits/a1c12e83bc6803e4e22b98e8d8dd28c9147949b7 [odoo/upgrade-util#36]
